Add datasync docs (#1422)
aerogear/graphback: docs/metadata.md

---
id: metadata

> title: Graphback Supported Metadata

Reviewer: WOW. You are hero! This is the API reference we were all looking to implement. 

Thank you so much for doing it. I would probably put that under reference chapter etc.

CC @machi1990 @craicoverflow

Reviewer 2: Hmm..I dunno about putting all metadata reference into one combined place. I believe they should be documented grouped with their purpose.

As an example. This page now documents (really nicely) the `@model` annotation. What happens to the `@model` annotation descriptions in [docs/intro/datamodel.md](https://github.com/aerogear/graphback/tree/master/docs/intro/datamodel.md)?

Do we maintain now maintain both? Or give a link from Data Model to this page (meaning more jumping around pages)

Author: Certainly, linking them up would be better (either from or to Data Model), but I think either way it would be best to have a single place that at least lists all supported annotations, wdyt, also thanks for pointing out, I will add the relationship annotations later today

Reviewer 3: A link from https://github.com/aerogear/graphback/tree/master/docs/intro/datamodel.md to this part would be good. It should be fine too since this part now details nicely the `@model` annotation.

#### Arguments

| Argument Key | Description | Example |
|-|-|-|
| `create` | Optionally specifies whether a `create` mutation is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(create: false)` |
| `delete` | Optionally specifies whether a `delete` mutation is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(delete: true)` |
| `find` | Optionally specifies whether a `find` query is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(find: false)` |
| `findOne` | Optionally specifies whether a `findOne` query is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(findOne: false)` |
| `subCreate` | Optionally specifies whether a `new` subscription is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(subCreate: false)` |
| `subUpdate` | Optionally specifies whether an `updated` subscription is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(subUpdate: false)` |

> | `subDelete` | Optionally specifies whether a `deleted` subscription is to be generated. Supported values: `true`, `false`. Defaults to `true` | `@model(subDelete: false)` |

Reviewer 3: Really nice. I think we are missing the `update` operation.

Author: I missed that, thanks!

#### Example

With the following example data model:

```graphql
"""
@model(
    delete: false
)
"""
type Comment {
  id: ID!
  text: String
  description: String
}
```

Graphback generates the following queries, mutations and subscriptions:
```graphql
type Mutation {
  createComment(input: CreateCommentInput!): Comment!
  updateComment(input: MutateCommentInput!): Comment!
}

type Query {
  getComment(id: ID!): Comment
  findComments(
    filter: CommentFilter
    page: PageRequest
    orderBy: OrderByInput
  ): CommentResultList!
}

type Subscription {
  newComment(filter: CommentSubscriptionFilter): Comment!
  updatedComment(filter: CommentSubscriptionFilter): Comment!
}

```

> It is apparent that the `comment` type does not have a `delete` mutation or a `deleted` subscription.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is apparent that the `Comment` type does not have a `delete` mutation or a `deleted` subscription.
```

## Datasource specific annotations

### `@db`

> GraphQL migrations is a tool to create and update database tables for using relational databases with Graphback. It supports a ton of features by using the `@db` annotation. Please check [this](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphql-migrations) page for complete documentation of it's features. This feature is **only** supported by Knex supported data sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GraphQL migrations is a tool to create and update database tables for using relational databases with Graphback. It supports a ton of features by using the `@db` annotation. Please check [this](https://graphback.dev/docs/db/dbmigrations) page for complete documentation of it's features. This feature is **only** supported by Knex supported data sources.
```

Maybe we should point to the migration guide.

### `@versioned`

The `versioned` annotation adds two fields to a model: `updatedAt` and `createdAt` which are then automatically managed by graphback. This annotation is **only** supported by the MongoDB data source as of now.

#### Example

From following example data model:

```graphql
"""
@model
@versioned
"""
type Comment {
  id: ID!
  text: String
  description: String
}
```

Graphback autogenerates the following:

```graphql
type Comment {
  id: ID!
  text: String
  description: String
  note: Note
  createdAt: String
  updatedAt: String
}
```

### `@index`

> The `@index` annotation can be used to create an index on a specific field or a set of fields at runtime. This annotation is **only** supported by the MongoDB data source as of now. Note that if you have relationships in your models, the relevant foreign keys are automatically indexed by Graphback, so you do not have to index them using `@index`.

Reviewer 3: So we also have `db.index` that's supported by `graphql-migrations` hence any relational database. Maybe we should just stick with one form. 

/cc @craicoverflow WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Yep, we should eventually migrate away from `@db.x` as much as we can, so we can move to `@index` then.

Reviewer: hmm.. Once we have then documented we do not need db itself.

Reviewer 3: We'll still need `db.index` it as it is used in the graphql-migrations. We should use `@index` there too.
